{\rtf1\ansi \deff0
{\fonttbl{\f0\froman Tms Rmn;}{\f1\fdecor Symbol;}{\f2\fswiss Helv;}
{\f3\fmodern Courier;\f4\fswiss MS Sans Serif;\f5\fswiss Helvitica;}
{\f6\fswiss Arial;\f7\fswiss Arial Super;\f8\fswiss MS Serif;}
{\f9\froman Times;\f10\froman Times New Roman;}
}
{\colortbl;

\red127\green0\blue0;
\red0\green127\blue0;
\red127\green127\blue0;
\red0\green0\blue127;
\red127\green0\blue127;
\red0\green127\blue127;
\red127\green127\blue127;
\red192\green192\blue192;
\red255\green0\blue0;
\red0\green255\blue0;
\red255\green255\blue0;
\red0\green0\blue255;
\red255\green0\blue255;
\red0\green255\blue255;
\red255\green255\blue255;}
\f2\fs20\f5
{${\footnote $ Tutorial}
#{\footnote # Tutorial}
+{\footnote + gen}
{\keepn\sb50\sa50\f2\fs24\b\cf12 Tutorial \fs20\par}
Initially, the characters appear in boxes in a vertical column on the right hand side (figure 1).  Start by clicking the left mouse button near the cross-hair move the pointer towards the first letter you want to write. e.g. 't'.\par
\par
\{bmc dasher1.bmp\} \par
Figure 1: Initial configuration.\par
\par
The display will start to zoom in towards the 't' (figure 2).\par
\par
\{bmc dasher2.bmp\} \par
Figure 2: Writing 't'.\par
\par
\par
You can stop at any time by clicking on the left mouse button. \par
\par
The horizontal direction controls the rate of zooming in. Moving the pointer to the right zooms in. Moving the pointer to the left zooms out. The vertical co-ordinates determines the place which is being zoomed in on.  As the desired letter moves towards the crosshair, further letters can be selected by searching within the box of the current letter. In figure 3, 'h' is being selected. \par
\par
\{bmc dasher3.bmp\} \par
Figure 3: Writing 't' followed by 'h'.\par
\par
Always look inside the current letter for the next letter. For example, to write 'the', point at the 'e' within 'h' (figure 4).\par
\{bmc dasher4.bmp\} \par
Figure 4: How to write 'the'.\par
\par
An easy mistake to make is to go for the first e you see, and not the 'e' within 't' (figure 5).\par
\par
\{bmc dasher5.bmp\} \par
Figure 5: How not to write 'the'.\par
\par
The text box above the display shows what is being written. To start again, tap New
}\page
{${\footnote $ Training Dasher}
#{\footnote # Training}
+{\footnote + gen}
{\keepn\sb50\sa50\f2\fs24\b\cf12 Training Dasher \fs20\par}
\pard\par
\par
Dasher uses two files to learn the language that you're writing.\par
\par
The first is <DASHER_DIR>\dasher.rc\training*.txt (the precise file depends on the language), and this is supplied with Dasher. It is responsible for the initial training.\par
\par
The second is c:\Documents and Settings\<USERNAME>\Application Data\dasher.rc\training*.txt. This contains text that you have written while using Dasher, allowing it to learn new words and your style of writing. Over time, Dasher will adapt to you in order to allow you to write faster.\par

}\page
{${\footnote $ Entering text into other programs}
#{\footnote # Enteringtext}
+{\footnote + gen}
{\keepn\sb50\sa50\f2\fs24\b\cf12 Entering text into other programs \fs20\par}
\pard\par
Either copy and paste from the Dasher edit box in roder to copy text to a new application, or switch on "Enter text other application" mode and Dasher will write directly into the selected window.\par

}\page
{${\footnote $ View menu}
#{\footnote # Viewmenu}
+{\footnote + gen}
{\keepn\sb50\sa50\f2\fs24\b\cf12 View menu \fs20\par}
\pard\par
{\b Orientation}\par
Alters the direction that the text moves in. If set to "Alphabet defined", the alphabet file will choose the appropriate direction for the alphabet.\par
\par
{\b Toolbar}\par
Configures the toolbar\par
\par
{\b Speed slider}\par
Controls whether the {\uldb Speed slider}{\v Speedslider} is displayed or not\par
\par
{\b Fix layout}\par
If switched on, the relative sizes of the edit box and the Dasher canvas will be kept the same
}\page
{${\footnote $ Speed slider}
#{\footnote # Speedslider}
+{\footnote + gen}
{\keepn\sb50\sa50\f2\fs24\b\cf12 Speed slider \fs20\par}
\pard\par
The speed slider controls how fast Dasher will move. Drag it to the right to go faster.
}\page
{${\footnote $ Options Menu}
#{\footnote # OptionsMenu}
+{\footnote + gen}
{\keepn\sb50\sa50\f2\fs24\b\cf12 Options Menu \fs20\par}
\pard\par
{\b Edit general options}\par
Opens the {\uldb General Options}{\v GeneralOptions} menu\par
\par
{\b Edit advanced options}\par
Opens the {\uldb Advanced Options}{\v AdvancedOptions} menu\par
\par
{\b Alphabet}\par
Allows you to choose the alphabet you want\par
\par
{\b Colours}\par
Allows you to choose the colour scheme you want\par
\par
{\b File encoding}\par
Alters the format the files are saved in. You should not normally change this.\par
\par
{\b Font size}\par
Alters the size of the moving characters\par
\par
{\b Editing font}\par
Alters the font used in the edit box\par
\par
{\b Dasher font}\par
Alters the font used for the moving characters\par
\par
{\b Reset fonts}\par
Resets the fonts to the default fonts\par
\par
{\b Enter text into other window}\par
This causes Dasher to enter text into whichever window is selected\par
\par
{\b Control mode}\par
This causes an extra node to appear at the bottom of the alphabet. Here, you can edit text directly from within Dasher, cause Dasher to speak text that you have entered and stop or pause Dasher.
}\page
{${\footnote $ General Options}
#{\footnote # GeneralOptions}
+{\footnote + gen}
{\keepn\sb50\sa50\f2\fs24\b\cf12 General Options \fs20\par}
\pard\par
{\b One dimensional mode}\par
Maps the Y coordinate of the mouse position to an X/Y coordinate\par
\par
{\b Eyetracker mode}\par
Behaves like one dimensional mode near the right hand edge of the screen, and normally elsewhere\par
\par
{\b Start on left mouse button}\par
The left mouse button starts and stops Dasher\par
\par
{\b Start on space bar}\par
The space bar starts and stops Dasher\par
\par
{\b Pause outside window}\par
Moving the mouse pointer outside the window pauses Dasher\par
\par
{\b On mouse position}\par
When Dasher is paused, a red box appears. Hold the cursor inside the red box until a yellow box appears. Hold the cursor inside the yellow box. Dasher will then start.\par
\par
{\b Speak on stop}\par
Dasher will speak newly entered text when stopped\par
\par
{\b Draw outlines around boxes}\par
Each box will have an outline drawn around it to make it more obvious\par
\par
{\b Timestamp new files}\par
Each file will have the current time in its filename\par
\par
{\b Copy all on stop}\par
When stopped, Dasher will copy all text to the clipboard automatically\par
\par
{\b Draw mouse position}\par
Dasher will draw a box where the logical position of the pointer is. This works well in one dimensional mode.\par
\par
{\b Draw mouse line}\par
Dasher will draw a line between the crosshairs and the current logical pointer position\par
\par
{\b Use preferred colours}\par
Dasher will automatically switch colour scheme to the one defined in the alphabet file for the chosen alphabet
}\page
{${\footnote $ Advanced Options}
#{\footnote # AdvancedOptions}
+{\footnote + gen}
{\keepn\sb50\sa50\f2\fs24\b\cf12 Advanced Options \fs20\par}
\pard\par
{\b Scale the Y input by this amount}\par
This defines the number of pixels of Y input that should cover the entire canvas in one dimensional mode\par
\par
{\b Distance from centre line for start on mouse position}\par
This defines the number of pixels from the centre line that the start on mouse position boxes will appear at\par
\par
{\b Degree of uniformity}\par
This defines how uniform the size of boxes will be. At higher values, the boxes will be closer to being the same size. This may reduce your writing speed
}\page
{${\footnote $ Feedback}
#{\footnote # Feedback}
+{\footnote + gen}
{\keepn\sb50\sa50\f2\fs24\b\cf12 Feedback \fs20\par}
\pard\par
The Dasher website is at http://www.inference.phy.cam.ac.uk/dasher . The Dasher authors may be contacted at dasher@mrao.cam.ac.uk\par

}\page
}
