.TH DASHER "1" "November 2003" "dasher 3.2.0" "User Commands"
.SH NAME 
dasher \- graphical predictive text entry system

.SH DESCRIPTION
.B dasher
is an information-efficient text-entry interface, driven by
natural continuous pointing gestures. Dasher is a competitive 
text-entry system wherever a full-size keyboard cannot be used.

.SH OPTIONS
.B dasher
takes no command line options.

.SH USAGE
After startup, Dasher will present the user with a window containing two major
sections. The top portion is the edit box - text entered via Dasher will appear
here, and the text may also be edited directly. The bottom portion is the main
Dasher interface and will display a blank background with a column of letters
on the right hand side. Clicking the mouse button will start the model, and the
screen will zoom towards the point underneath the mouse pointer. To select a 
letter, move the mouse pointer into it and watch how it zooms underneat the
crosshair. Within the selected letter, a new column of letters will appear.
Move the pointer over one of these letters to select it as the next letter. To
correct mistakes, move the mouse pointer to the left of the crosshair and 
Dasher will zoom out allowing you to select new letters.

.SH MENUS

.SS File

.IP New
Restore Dasher to the state it was in when started

.IP Open
Read a text file into the Dasher edit box for further editting

.IP Save
Save the contents of the Dasher edit box to a file

.IP "Save as"
Save the contents of the Dasher edit box to a file chosen by the user

.IP "Append to file"
Add the contents of the Dasher edit box to the end of a file chosen by the user

.IP "Import training text"
Use a file to further train Dasher (for instance, a training file containing
scientific terms to add to the initial English training). Training files must
be UTF-8 encoding.

.IP Exit
Quit Dasher

.SS Edit

.IP Cut
Remove the highlighted text from the edit box and copy it to the clipboard

.IP Copy
Copy the highlighted text from the edit box to the clipboard but don't remove 
it

.IP Paste
Paste the contents of the clipboard into the edit box at the position of the
cursor

.IP "Copy all"
Copy the entire contents of the edit box to the clipboard

.IP "Select all"
Highlight all of the text in the edit box

.SS Options

.IP "Preferences"
Opens the preferences dialog (see
.SM
.B "THE PREFERENCES DIALOG"
below)

.IP "Edit font"
Choose the font used in the edit box

.IP "Dasher font"
Choose the font used in the Dasher canvas

.IP "Dasher font size"
Choose the size of the font used in the Dasher canvas

.IP "Reset fonts"
Reset the fonts back to the defaults

.IP "Enter text into other windows"
Make Dasher enter text into the currently focused window. Requires Dasher to 
have been built with 
.B--with-a11y. 
Note that some languages will only work correctly if XFree 4.0.2 or higher is 
being used.

.IP "Control mode"
Provides a control node at the bottom of the screen. This allows various tasks
to be performed inside Dasher, such as editing the text written, speaking 
entered text and stopping or pausing Dasher. If compiled with 
.B--with-a11y 
and using a desktop supporting the ATK accessibility framework, compliant 
applications will have their menu trees exported to Dasher and these may be
accessed via this node.

.SS Help

.IP "About Dasher"
Display information about the current version of Dasher

.SH THE PREFERENCES DIALOG

The preferences dialog is split into several panes.

.SS Alphabet
Choose a different alphabet. Dasher will automatically retrain itself if the
alphabet specified training file is present

.SS Colour
Choose a different colour scheme.

.SS Control

Alter various control options

.IP "One dimensional mode"
Map the Y position of the mouse to a 2 dimensional position on the Dasher
canvas (useful for limited mobility users)

.IP "Eyetracker mode"
Similar to one dimensional mode, but behaves normally except at the right-hand
side of the canvas. Designed for eyetracker users.

.IP "Start on left mouse button"
The left mouse button will toggle Dasher between running and paused state

.IP "Start on space bar"
The space bar will toggle Dasher between running and paused state

.IP "Start with mouse position"
When paused, Dasher will display a red box. If the pointer is held in the red
box until a yellow box appears, and then in the yellow box until it vanishes,
Dasher will start. This allows users with no button input to start and stop 
Dasher.

.IP "Copy all on stop"
Toggle whether the current text is automatically copied to the clipboard when
Dasher is stopped

.IP "Speak on stop"
Toggle whether the newly entered text should be spoken when Dasher is stopped.
Requires
.B --with-speech
to have been used during Dasher configuration and building.

.IP "Pause outside window"
Toggle whether Dasher pauses if the mouse cursor is moved outside the Dasher
window

.SS View

.IP Orientation
Change the relative position of the letters to the crosshairs.
.B Alphabet Default
will allow alphabets to set this automatically.

.IP "Show toolbar"
Toggle whether or not the row of buttons at the top of the window is displayed

.IP "Show speed slider"
Toggle whether or not the speed slider at the bottom of the window is displayed

.IP "Show mouse position"
Toggle whether Dasher should draw a box showing the logical position of the
mouse cursor

.IP "Draw line between crosshairs and mouse"
Toggle whether Dasher should draw a line between the crosshairs and the logical
mouse position

.IP "Draw box outlines"
Toggle whether Dasher should draw a box outline around every box it draws

.IP "Change colour scheme automatically"
Alphabets may provide a preferred colour scheme. If this option is enabled,
Dasher will automatically change to it.

.SS Advanced

.IP "Smoothing"
The greater the smoothing value, the greater the uniformity of the box sizes.
This will reduce the predictive capabilities of Dasher, and so may reduce
writing speed.

.IP "Timestamp new files"
Include the time at which a file is saved in the filename

.IP "Distance from centreline for start on mouse position"
Controls the distance from the centre of the Dasher screen that the mouse
position start boxes will appear.

.IP "Number of pixels that should cover the entire y range"
Controls how many pixels of input should correspond to complete coverage of
the Dasher canvas. Only used in one dimensional mode.

.SH CONVERTING TRAINING FILES TO UTF-8

Dasher requires that training files be in the UTF-8 format, whereas most text
files are likely to be in ISO-8859 format. This doesn't matter for plain text,
but accented characters are encoded differently. In order to convert them, use
the 
.BR iconv (1)
program. For instance, if your training file is in ISO-8859-1 format (Western
European), run

.B iconv -f ISO-8859-1 -t UTF-8 trainingfile >newtrainingfile

.SH FILES

.I /usr/share/dasher/
.RS
System-wide configuration files
.RE
.I ~/.dasher
.RS
User configuration files
.RE

.B dasher
will utilise data from both of these directories. Training texts from both will
be used, allowing users to add their own training data to the system wide data

.I alphabet*.xml
.RS
The files defining the alphabets available to Dasher
.RE
.I colour*.xml
.RS
The files defining the colour schemes available to Dasher
.RE
.I train*txt
.RS
Files containing the training data used by Dasher. These are UTF-8 encoded 
text and should contain a representative sample of the relevant language.

.SH AUTHOR

The Dasher Project <dasher@mrao.phy.cam.ac.uk> - 
http://www.inference.phy.cam.ac.uk/dasher/
